# Today's Plan

- [ ] Continue module implementation on daemon

# Discussion about Architecture

In a exchange with Vincent, we made some changes to the code architecture in order to improve its correctness.

## Command and Options

The first idea was that options will give a different execution for a given command. For example, trigger-all which triggers all cameras and trigger-select which allows user to select which camera to triggers. In the python script, I have coded it as an attribute that would be read and the execution would be decided.

However, when implementing enums to keep this option information, Vincent told me that this is not very useful since a command is a operation and a command-option is another operation. This means that I could treat trigger-all and trigger-select as two separate commands with no options, only composed command names. This makes sense and it is easier to be implemented.
The argument used is that the polymorphism here does not worth it.

## Command and CommandResponse

In my script, Commands only encapsulate the serialization of the command by taking command name and arguments, and generating the command serialized string that the uC would read. However, the uC will respond in a fixed format and this message needs to be deserialized. So, I intended to create an object that will take this string and deserialize it, so responsabilities are separated. However, some commands had special messages blocks that needed to be deserialized too. Then, I introduced polymorphisms by creating for example a InfoResponse to the InfoCommand.

Vincent told me that the Command class could manage it and that having to set of classes that mirrors itself implies more checking afterwards. Indeed, the main argument was that this structure allows errors like type mismatching of Commands and CommandResponses.

So, I decided that Command would take the serialized microcontroller string and deserialize it. So, if the software needs information sent by the uC, it needs to retrieve it on the command class.

## Mode >< Status

I had implemented a status enum that had a `CONNECTED_DEBUG` to it.
Vincent told me that is better to separate connectivity and mode. So, I implemented a Mode enum.

## About Device GPIO mapping

First of all, the only elements of devices that are _unchangeable_ are the _model and serial number_. A new device_id is generated every time the daemon is launched, so it is not a good identifier.

Now, for mapping which device is connect to which GPIO we have to see different aspects:
- **GPIO and Trigger cable** :
	- Define a fixed interval of GPIOs numbers that are designated to camera trigger cable.
	- User would be able to change which GPIO the cable is connected or the cables would be fixed?
- **uC Information**:
	- The uC would provide the PC which GPIOs are used.
	- This would be hardcoded on the flash memory.
	- uC does not know which device is connected, PC needs to send the command with the right GPIO number
- **Daemon Information**:
	- GPIO and Device identifier tuple are in a configuration file that the user can change.
	- The GUI provides a tool for the user to associate devices to a microcontroller GPIO.
	- Daemon would get the GPIO used, ask the user which devices are connected and once the setup done, it set the table inside uC EEPROM or stores data locally.
	- At the launch of the daemon, it gets the table inside the uC and verify if it matches the table on the configuration file for data validation.
	- Get/Set HTTP requests for components.

For the moment, Vincent told me to focus on the trigger-all command which does not require the mapping since every GPIO is activated at once. No need for a translation table.

# Daemon Implementation