Start : 08h45
End   : 17h20

# Today's Plan

- [x] Analyze Deserializer performance
- [x] Optimize Deserializer
- [x] Response formating
- [x] Plug-and-Play thread


# Analysing Deserializer 

## Performance

By placing the deserialize function in between two millis() and priting the value in the debug message, it is possible to analyze the time taken to parser the received string.

Surprisingly, it takes no more than 1 ms to deserialize even the biggest command which is a trigger selective with 10 arguments.

I am going to make a script that will grab data and put it into files in order to better analyse it.

--- 
Following performance tests, it was noticed that deserialization is really fast with average duration of 1.656 ms, cf. deserialization_performance_analysis.ods.

## Memory

While trying to perform performance test, lot of bugs appeared to the high consumption of RAM due to Strings. Indeed, some string were not build due to lack of memory. After a quick research, I found that we could optimize SRAM memory usage by storing literal strings on flash memory. Thus, for all predefined string, i have stored it on the flash.

The usage of SRAM was at 49% and after applying this solution, I achieved 21% of used.

The missing strings errors disappeared and i could make economies of SRAM. 

However the use of program went up and is reaching 31%.


# Response formatting

Since the command has a predefined format that should be parser by the uC, it is logic to have a predefined response format to ease the use of variables values given by the uC or the check success of commands.

The response format is the following:
```
|| <STATUS> | <MESSAGE> if success or 
			  <ERROR_MESSAGE> if error | <DEBUG_MESSAGE> if debug on ||

|| SUCCESS | <MESSAGE> ||     or || SUCCESS | <MESSAGE> | <DEBUG_MESSAGE>||
|| ERROR | <ERROR_MESSAGE> || or || ERROR | <ERROR_MESSAGE> | <DEBUG_MESSAGE>||
```

the rx_receive function makes the parsing of this response.

# Remarks about serial communication

The USB sniffing analysis realized several commands in random others and the main goal was to compute the average reception-transmission delay of the communication. The results showed that serial communication is really slow, something around 1.06s per command, cf. usb_sniffing_analysis.txt.

More tests should be done to determine how to improve this. Perhaps, reducing command serialization size or changing encoding.

# About ports monitoring

I have setup a logic that enables easy plug-and-plug functionality. The logic flow is the following:

If a port is passed in the uC_serialComm in the constructor, it tries directly to connect to the port. Connecting means open a serial communication, send a ping command and wait for the correct formatted response of the command. If the connection is successful, the port is set, it is opened and the object can execute commands.

If no port is designated or if the connection fails, it will monitor ports in other to find the correct port where the uC is plugged to. Monitor is a loop that while the port is not defined, it will scan ports and try to connect. It keeps track of all ports and new ones. If the uC is already connected then at the first scan, we will be able to locate the correct port and open a communication. In the opposite case, monitor will try every port and will fail. However, it will look for any new device connection. When a new device is connected, it tries to connect to it immediately. If it is successful, the trick is done. 

If the communication is established, the software can execute commands. However, it handle any _Serial Communication Exception_ as a device disconnected/connection lost. Whenever a serial communication exception is raised when trying to execute a command, the class calls _monitor_ to look for uC. This strategy is blocking meaning that any command that were interrupt by an serial communication exception will hold until the uC is retrieved and when it is, it restarts the command that give error.
This strategy should be tested for every cases.

The workflow is drawn in the notebook:

- __init__
	- if port set:
		- __connect__
			- if successful:
				- __execute commands__
			- else:
				- __monitor__
	- if no port set:
		- __monitor__

- __monitor__
	- _get port list_
		- if new ports
			- _is_uC_port_
				- if true:
					- __connect__
				- else
					- loop
		- else
			- wait

- __execute__
	- send serialized command
	- wait response
	- send true or false according to command status
	- if _serial communication exception_
		- _monitor_
		- _execute(last command)_