# Today's Plan

- [x] Test Renesas boards
- [ ] Class Decoupling and Architecture Refactoring
- [ ] Unit test of new module

# Test Renesas Boards

After I installed the e2 studio IDE, I have trouble getting it to work. The code architecture does not seems difficult but names are terrible to read and IDE is not the greatest. This is why I published a question on renesas support forum in order to get help and test my boards. Today, I got an answer that i would like to test.
[FrBrenno Question](https://community.renesas.com/mcu-mpu/rx/f/rx-forum/39047/newbie-at-programming-rx65n-target-board)


I just needed to install the driver for the E2-Lite on-board debugger. Now, I can launch the code.

The problem that I was not being able to run the code in the microcontroller is because I didnt have chosen the right device. For my target board, I should choose TargetBoardRX65N device and I was using R5F565NEDDFP, which the right microcontroller but some pins were not correctly mapped.

Problems that I had:
- Installer does not open: SWT Java Error
	- solved by installing the  libswt-gtk-4-java & libswt-gtk-4-jni libraries
	- by coping the files from /usr/lib/jni to /.swt/\*/x86_64/
	- by renaming one of the file from pi3 to pi4
	- and finally by installing any missing library
- Debugger connection
	- I had to install the E2-Lite debugger driver
	- then to correctly configure the debug mode so the connection can be made
	- then it was fine
- Debugging code wasn't running
	- I was using the wrong device on the configuration meaning that the pins were not mapped according to the board.
	- Just have to find the right device.

# Architecture Refactoring