
# Today's Plan

- [ ] Device module implementation & merge

# Device module

## Interfaces

The interfaces are important in this module. Each device module must implement this interface to ensure that the managing classes can make the correct function calls on device classes. 
Thus, the methods set on the interface for device, discoverer and handler are the ones used inside device module classes, such as `device_set`, `discoverer_set` and `discovering_thread`.

For device and discoverer it is pretty straight-forward because we just need to see which are the methods called on a device or on a discoverer.

For handler is more subtle because there is no direct call. However, as device is a frontend that uses the handler API, some device calls calls the related handler method. It is these ones that should one in the interface.


## Device Abstraction

After trying to abstract the code of camera and microcontroller with the Device class, we decided that it is not worth the work.

Indeed, although the Camera and Microcontroller are pretty similar, they have many specific attributes that are used on that methods which are supposed identical. Abstracting it was hard and i could only abstract 3 or 4 methods. All the others should be rewritten inside the specific classes which is exactly the opposite of what we wanted.
Maybe i could just take these analogue methods, that are the same but acting in a different environment, and put into device interface in order to force redefinition for each type. However, these methods are not needed in the core module thus the question: is it necessary?

## Discoverer Abstraction

However, discoverer is basically the same object but working with different class of device and handler, `<camera, backend>` or `<microcontroller, communication>`. This could be abstracted as a whole and even put only into the device module. The subsequent modules must only define the type and implement specific methods or virtual ones.

## Handler Abstraction

Each module will have its own type of handler, which is not common to modules. For example, Backend for camera exposes the camera API to use while Communication for microcontroller exposes the communication features to use.

