# Today's Plan

- [x] Solve threads on Merge Request: device-module
- [ ] virtual-microcontroller
	- [x] bug configuration program arguments
	- [ ] request: /microcontrollers/{id}/cameras
	- [ ] request: /microcontroller/{id}/cameras/update
	- [ ] request: rename trigger command to software_trigger
	- [ ] request: cameras/{id}/hardware_trigger
	- [ ] request: cameras/hardware_trigger
		- [ ] check cameras parameters: trigger mode, line, ...
		- [ ] if bad, update it
		- [ ] set single_image_acquisition
		- [ ] execute command on microcontroller
	- [ ] serializer of command
	- [ ] request: execute command
	- [ ] unit testing
	- [ ] rebase and merge
- [ ] start implementing microcontroller-serial

# Notes

I start the day by correcting the bug of configuration of the microcontroller module. Now it is solved.
Then, I decide to start solving the Merge Request threads of device-module which I solved the majority of them but one special threads took me the whole afternoon to do and I still could not finish.

The problematic threads is the type-safety of DeviceSet. Indeed, how it is programmed now, core modules only operates on abstract DeviceSets with DeviceInterfaces. In order to avoid problem like casting down some microcontrollers as cameras or vice-versa, Vincent asked my to make DeviceSet type-safe.

I tried several approaches and could not do it successfully because at one point of the refactoring, I would have an abstracted class that cannot handle a concrete type or a class that needs the concrete type having to cast down, which it is original problem.

Vincent proposed me some bypassing techniques by keeping discoverer_set abstracted and make device_set just a reference of it. it would allow the abstracted class to deal with an abstract class and the other classes will still have the concrete type. I will test it tomorrow and I expect to finish it tomorrow morning. Then, I will speed up to finish the virtual microcontroller module so I can start the serial microcontroller next week.