# Today's Plan

- [ ] virtual-microcontroller module
	- [x] snelliumd arguments for vmic
	- [x] solve bugs left about microcontroller device-identifier()
	- [x] core request: /microcontrollers-list
	- [x] core request: /microcontroller/{device_identifier}/info
	- [ ] core request: /mircrocontroller/{device_identifier}/execute
		- [ ] serializer_command
	- [ ] unit test module
	- [ ] Rebase and merge request virtual-microcontroller module
- [ ] Branch and implement microcontroller-serial


# Notes

- I am late on my virtual microcontroller module. Try to finish everything today, send a merge request and start serial still today

# Virtual Module

The software will have some microcontroller module options to run. 
If there is a program option `--{prefix}-microcontroller`, it will automatically activate the discoverer of the module designated by the prefix. The prefix is for example `virtual` for microcontroller-virtual and could be `serial`, `ethernet`, `wifi`, ...

Each of this prefix will have a different configuration class that will implement the specificity of each module. For example, `serial` could have as argument a specific port and baudrate to which a microcontroller could be connected and for `ethernet`, it could be the IP address. 

All modules, independently of the interface, can insert their microcontroller settings file, which is a JSON containing important settings and also the device-GPIO mapping. This mapping should be done by the user by modifying the file or through the user interfaces/requests. It is saved on the end of each session. If the user does not pass any file, it will load an empty with no devices and it should be added through requests.