# Today's Plan

- Florence is going to introduce to me the software/setup and demonstrate how it works with the mechanical trigger (button). 
- I can start researching and tweaking with the current microcontroller in place in order to sketch a trigger system.
- Software uC commands interface 
	- need software codebase inspection
- uC automatic configuration through USB handshake 
	- need research on USB protocol :)
- uC trigger signal 
	- inspect the circuit in place
	- should be easy, only activating a GPIO signal (in theory)

# Microcontrollers search

The microcontrollers boards I have chosen yesterday are great and should do the job. However, I have concerns about overengineering them. They are way too powerful for the tasks they need to execute, which means that buying them may not be a very economical move, and they have many features that are not interesting or are not going to be used.

I have talked to Abbas about my concerns and he told me that there is no problem if they are powerful. It is better to have something really powerful that can do the job and is open to new features. The main concerns he expressed to me are:
- Long lead time (availability)
	- chosen uC boards have long lead times (> 12 weeks)
- It has to be in a board 
	- to avoid having to solder a board every time we need to install the module in a machine
	- however the development boards are not great for industrial application, so find the better ones with the maximum features needed that are more powerful than needed
- It has to be reliable and has a long lifetime
	- he insisted in uC with lifetime over 5/10 years
	- client should not be bothered by a malfunctioning uC in a couple of years
- Could be less powerful then the found ones but needs to get the job done and has some place to implement more features in the future.
- Serial communication with motors components are slow
	- he told me that stepper motors and the current system the use is very slow because of uC and drivers communication
	- the chose uC should be upgradable for faster serial communication interface
	- however Vincent told that it is not in the scope of my internship for the moment, it is just one thing to consider when choosing
	- most uC boards are expansible with expansion boards and drivers
		- STM32 has lots of comm. interfaces capabilities

Based on this discussion, I will research for some Microcontroller-based industrial application in order to extract the models used, their requirements and understand how the author has made a decision. After this, I will look for this kind of uC boards.

The manufacturers has stand out while I was doing my other research, STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments. ST has incredibly powerful uC and uC boards. However the lead time is too long. TI has some good uC too, a great documentation and a shorter lead time. In order to have a third option, I will look at Infineon or NXP too, because they have shorter lead time, despite not being used industrial applications.