
# Today's Plan

- [x] Download and Build the daemon
- [x] Boost IO as pyserial and pyudev

# Fucked up my computer again

When trying to install boost library, I deleted almost every file in the home directory. The problem was that the installation asked to design a directory folder to boost as so:
`./b2 install --prefix=<DIR>`
So I had created a folder as such : ~/boost. Then i wrote: `./b2 install --prefix=~/boost`. It created a directory ~ inside the download directory. Thus, without hesitation I wrote: `rm -rf ~`

This resets everything i had setup like firefox, deleted my journal but by chance I have it on git, deleted I my zotero sources, etc...

I had to setup and download some software all over again.


# Building the daemon

- Need to install plenty of libraries with apt. Here is the list:
```
software-properties-common
wget
git
build-essential
cmake
clang-format-15
libboost-dev
libboost-regex-dev
libboost-program-options-dev
libopencv-dev
libeigen3-dev
nvidia-cuda-dev
nvidia-cuda-toolkit
libceres-dev
libopenscenegraph-dev
libgtest-dev
nlohmann-json3-dev
python3-requests
python3-opencv
libcrypto++-dev

libmetis
ueye driver
suitesparse
```
- Whole day spent on building the daemon.

# Boost asio as pyserial and pyudev

- It is possible to use boost asio just as I used pyserial to open a serial port and communicate with a device. 
	- [Boost asio documentation](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_85_0/doc/html/boost_asio/overview/serial_ports.html)
- However, I still have to research if it have the same functionalities that pyudev for monitoring devices. 
	- By now, I couldn't find anything about it and some people says it is not possible. Hopefully, I can still use the pyudev counterpart `libudev`for c++ but it is only for linux (need to be checked)