Start Hour : 09h00
End Hour   : 17h40

# Microcontroller board decision

Criteria

- Clock Speed
- Core Type : ARM Cortex-M0 -M3 -M4F -M7 
	- compatible with FreeRTOS 
- GPIO availability:
	- enough GPIO to trigger cameras and actuate motion control system
- Ethernet Interface:
	- not physical (length) limitation as opposed to USB
	- fast communication
	- TCP/IP protocol
- Development Environment
	- Ease of Use
	- RTOS support
	- Libraries
	- C/C++
	- IDEs
	- Debuggers
- Peripheral support
	- PWM pins for actuate motors
	- Expansion capabilities
- Cost, availability & replaceable
	- < 100€
	- active and not long delivery delay
	- could be replaced by a similar/alternative microcontroller and run the same program without big trouble
- Durability and Industrial reliability
	- it should last for long-term periods 5/10 years
	- Industrial-application oriented
	- Shock and vibration resistance
	- Temperature ranges
	- Manufacturer support
- Board
	- not assemblage should be needed


Here is the list of microcontrollers I have found and you could see the two best ones in colors and they are ordered by preference. 

First of all, by studying the project use cases, I decided that the microcontroller would run an RTOS due to the speed requirements. FreeRTOS are chosen as our RTOS since is open-source, well-documented, has a big community and I have already worked with. Searching for compatible devices, I could narrow the options of manufacturer, series and architecture families. 
The first filter was by manufacturers. I have search for manufacturers that were known for its industrial application microcontrollers and some names often showed up such as, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments, Infigeon, NXP, etc...

Then, by looking the architecture families that were common to all manufacturer it was pretty remarkable that the ARM Cortex-M0, -M3, -M4F and -M7 were particularly repeated. So, I tuned my research for these architectures. 

The next filter was price because I would like to find cheap microprocessors boards. I fixed the price range from 15€ to 45€.

After this process I still got a lot of possibilities. So, I look for a high number of I/O ports, high frequency clock, Ethernet interface, PWM pins and lifetime. In order to have some reference, I looked for models close to the one used in Włodarczyk's 2017 report (https://bibliotekanauki.pl/articles/305720). His models is the second best one found and is colored in yellow on the document.

STM32 Nucleo144-H723ZG is a 32-bit ARM Cortex-M7 microcontroller board with several possible interfaces such as Ethernet and USB. This board is a high-performance microcontroller expansible through Arduino connectors which other element's drivers can be connected, such as DC motors drivers. It has some electrical protection circuitry and standard temperature range. The STM32 ecosystem seems great with an dedicated IDE and also Arduino-IDE and FreeRTOS compatibility.

According to ST documentation, this board can be used in industrial application although all boards has more a educational or prototyping purpose. In fact, I guess that once the system completed and working, a big clean of the board could be done, eliminating unnecessary elements. However, it will imply design a PCB board to integrate everything, if I get it right.

I need a second look of someone else to determine if the STM32 Nucleo144-H723ZG is really the right choice. It is the first time I have to decide on which microcontroller to buy.

# More Project Information

- PC to uC communication can be done through USB since no speed requirements.
- (currently) PC configures camera to wait for Hardware Trigger signal and waits for Button trigger signal to obtain camera data.
- (wanted) PC recognizes uC through USB handshakes and formal protocol
- (wanted) PC implements interface to interact with uC and send Trigger signal
	- Plug-and-Play, which means that every configuration should be automatic. No need for technical knowledge to configure it.
- (wanted) uC should be able to actuate motors in the future
- (wanted) PC-uC protocol through USB should be robust and scalable, accepting new features without breaking last version.

# Abbas discussion about microcontrollers

Industrial-application oriented : documented as such 
Long lifetime/ reliability : 5/10 years
Has to be in a board : avoid soldering time
Could be less powerful : doesnt really matter if job is done for 10€ more
Lead time : must have shortest lead time possible to avoid large waiting time

Abbas complained about the serial communication with motors/motors drivers that are too slow. However he does not know how the motor system will be because they did not buy the things yet.

So, i could use a least powerful microcontroller that i have found. however it should good enough for client satisfaction and product reliability.



