

# Today's Plan

- [x] Confirm that the order has been made and get delivery date
- [x] Implement a rough triggering system with a spare uC 
- [x] Research on Plug-and-Play uC-PC connection

# Plug-and-Play microcontroller-PC communication

Here follows the idea of the uC controller communication module/interface/process/thread :

When the main software is opened, it launches a thread or a process of the uC communication.

This thread/process will scan ports and try to establish a serial communication with the microcontroller. 

uC will be coded to receive a fixed numbers of commands, which are basically strings sent through serial communication. The most important one will be the identifying command. This command will return information about the uC like its ID, models, architecture etc (everything needed to uniquely identify the uC). After this, the software have to establish connection through a handshake using command "hello". This command will establish the connection with the specific uC which the command arrived. Then, a bunch of function commands will be available such as ping (test communication), trigger (send trigger signal to cameras) and stop (close communication).

When the device will be connected via USB to the computer, USB protocol will emit a signal that will be capture by the thread and will ask info about the device. If the device respond correctly, it is a uC. 

Software will interact with uC via this thread by implement its interface and executing predefined commands.