Start : 08h45
End :   

# Today's Plan

- [x] Search auto-reset when opening port on RX65N
- [x] Enhance command pattern to accept options and arguments
- [ ] Trigger a camera using uC
- [ ] Scanning ports for uC
- [ ] Find library for serial communication in cpp

# Time delay after port connection

When opening a new serial connection, the current PC-side software needs to wait $1.65$ s before executing a command. Any command sent before this delay is not received by the uC and thus, no response is obtained. This happens because the arduino board auto-resets every time a port connection is opened.  As a consequence, the bootloader takes control of the uC and it has a time before it is ready. This time is the delay with have to wait.
# Auto-reset on RX65N

On arduino, the auto-reset is done every time a new port is opened. This is because a reset is done every time the DTS signal is put to low. However, when beginning serial communication, this signal is always put to low. 
Some ways to bypass this is by:
- connecting a capacitor between the reset and the ground
- breaking lane labeled as RESET-EN
- disabling the low dts 
However, unable reset implies that upload of code is not easier because the current system allows the uC to be reset and programmed correctly.

On RX65N, there 9 types of reset modes. Generally this is done by setting RES to low. However, documentation does not explicit if the board is reset every time a port is opened. This needs **tests** when the board has arrived.

If so, I guess the solution to avoid having this large delay is to correctly program the uC with the final code and disable auto-reset. Disabling auto-reset is reversible by soldering back components or taking out them.

# Communication uC-PC : Commands

Instead of just sending a single word as commands, the commands should be more advanced accepting options and arguments.
The idea now is to implement a linux-like command parser that will accept a command word, options followed by "-" and arguments delimited by "|". For example:
```
||ping||                        // Single word command
||info-id||                     // Command-option
||trigger-selective|3|0|1|2|||  // Command-option|#args|arg1|arg2|...|argn|
```

I am going to do some research on linux command parser to understand how it is done and grab some ideas, especially to speed up things.
I have to well-define all commands, options and arguments.
