Start: 09h05
End :  17h50

# Today's Plan

- [x] Finish implementation of deserializer of the uC 
- [x] Construct Command grammar
- [x] Make automated tests to verify communication
- [ ] Validate communication protocol
- [ ] Take a look at performance

# uC Deserializer

I finished implementing the deserializer of the uC serial communication. Basically, a command has three forms:
```
single-word   : ||ping||
with option   : ||info-muc_type||
with arguments: ||example|2-arg1-arg2||
complete      : ||trigger-selective|2-cam1-cam2||
```

The deserializer breaks the serialized string into blocks, such as defined on the grammar ods file, and the CommandArgs struct is filled. After the deserialization process, the struct should be validate according to commands specific structure, option and arguments.

It is pretty robust and it can detect all correct commands and raise very precise errors when the serialization is not done correctly.

Tests should be done to analyze performance and try to optimize the algorithm. A very brief analysis of USB sniffing showed that average time difference between the command and the response between uC and PC takes 1.05 seconds. This could be caused by serial communication limitation or by the processing time of the command. 

# PC Serializer

The commands are encapsulated by classes that according to the type of command, single-word, with option, with arguments or complete, generate the correct serialized string.


# Creating a new command

To define a new command, first you need to create a command class that will inherit from one of the four base classes. The constructor has to be created accordingly to desired command style you want.

That's all for PC.

On uC side, you need to add code to the deserializer module. First, you need to define the command string and its options on the header file. Also, you need to define the validation function for this command. The validation function is where the logic behind the command structure lies.
On the source file of the deserializer, you only have to add an else-if statement into the validateCommadArg function so the function can call the right validation function. In the validation function, you need to go through the struct and very if it has the expected format. For example, if this command takes no arguments and has a few options, you should verify that the argNumber is equal to zero and verify is the option is a valid choice.

After doing so, you need to go to the uC main code and add an else-if statement in the loop function so it can call the command function to execute it. Of course, implement a command function that will actually execute the code asked by the command. The command function should check for option in order to execute the command in the right option mode.


# Plug and Play

I have created a function into the uC_serial_communication classes that scans all ports of the PC and send a ||info-hello|| command. The PC then waits for a reply, 'hello'. If the PC get the reply, it means that it has found the uC port and it should keep this communication open.

However, several issues appeared:
- For each serial communication, the delay is too long. This is because of ARDUINO_AUTORESET_DURATION that is needed to wait before starting communicating with the uC.
- If the uC is removed and replugged, the communication is lost and it won't find the correct port again. The script has to be rerun in order to achieve this.
- Making a thread that send ping commands to verify connection and if the connection is lost, it scans the ports for the uC introduces concurrency problems. The commands are executed anyway and they dont wait for the thread to find it.