Start : 08h45
End   : 

# Today's Plan

- [x] Analyze Deserializer performance
- [x] Optimize Deserializer
- [ ] Response formating
- [ ] Plug-and-Play thread


# Analysing Deserializer 

## Performance

By placing the deserialize function in between two millis() and priting the value in the debug message, it is possible to analyze the time taken to parser the received string.

Surprisingly, it takes no more than 1 ms to deserialize even the biggest command which is a trigger selective with 10 arguments.

I am going to make a script that will grab data and put it into files in order to better analyse it.

--- 
Following performance tests, it was noticed that deserialization is really fast with average duration of 1.656 ms, cf. deserialization_performance_analysis.ods.

## Memory

While trying to perform performance test, lot of bugs appeared to the high consumption of RAM due to Strings. Indeed, some string were not build due to lack of memory. After a quick research, I found that we could optimize SRAM memory usage by storing literal strings on flash memory. Thus, for all predefined string, i have stored it on the flash.

The usage of SRAM was at 49% and after applying this solution, I achieved 21% of used.

The missing strings errors disappeared and i could make economies of SRAM. 

However the use of program went up and is reaching 31%.


# Response formatting

Since the command has a predefined format that should be parser by the uC, it is logic to have a predefined response format to ease the use of variables values given by the uC or the check success of commands.

The response format is the following:
```
|| <STATUS> | <MESSAGE> if success or 
			  <ERROR_MESSAGE> if error | <DEBUG_MESSAGE> if debug on ||

|| SUCCESS | <MESSAGE> ||     or || SUCCESS | <MESSAGE> | <DEBUG_MESSAGE>||
|| ERROR | <ERROR_MESSAGE> || or || ERROR | <ERROR_MESSAGE> | <DEBUG_MESSAGE>||
```

the rx_receive function makes the parsing of this response.

# Remarks about serial communication

The USB sniffing analysis realized several commands in random others and the main goal was to compute the average reception-transmission delay of the communication. The results showed that serial communication is really slow, something around 1.06s per command, cf. usb_sniffing_analysis.txt.

More tests should be done to determine how to improve this. Perhaps, reducing command serialization size or changing encoding.

