
# Today's Plan

- [x] Architecture Refactoring
- [ ] Unit Test
- [x] Trigger Camera


# Architecture Refactoring

Create classes that abstracts library to allow cross-compatibility between platforms and libraries. This is why every class that calls a library should call an API instead, because api may change. This allows also to mock devices behaviors and etc.

However before continuing refactoring the code, I should test that the system can trigger a camera. 

# Camera Triggering

By enabling GPIO 2 of the arduino clone board, and giving it the same functionalities as the LED (just by replacing LED by GPIO), I could implement the signal transmission when the command is sent.
In order to transmit the signal to the camera, I have a 6 pin can which I had to identify each line using a short current function of the multimeter. After that, I connected the camera to my PC and verify that I was able to take pictures with it. Then, I configured the camera to receive a hardware trigger and set on which line the signal was going to arrive. I plugged the capture and starting test. As soon as the command is received, the signal is sent and the image is acquired, showing that the current is correctly designed.

It was not a surprise because everything I could do with a LED, I can do with the GPIO. As the trigger signal is just a toggle signal that goes up and down, there is nothing much complicated.

I have also checked the current and the voltage coming out of the uC. The results confirmed the datasheet where we have 5V of delivered voltage and 3mA of current. However, I am not sure about the current value because the datasheet says 45 to 60 mA. Maybe I took the wrong mesure of it but I dont know.


One thing i noticed if that if I send several commands very fast, the uC receive it as a very long command that is not parseable. Maybe this is a bug to fix. Perhaps the uC should take only the first command, delimited by || ||, and put the rest of the string in a buffer in order to be treated later.
- This is problem only occurs on manually serial monitor on Arduino IDE. When using the code that should interface with it, there no problem since we are waiting for a response before sending more commands.


## Information about the trigger 

| pin number | line number | color      |
| ---------- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1          | line 3      | yellow     |
| 2          | line 1      | white      |
| 3          | line 4      |            |
| 4          | line 2      | green      |
| 5          | ground opto | green      |
| 6          | ground GPIO | green knot |

In order to find the pin number of the cable :
- Find bigger metal that covers two pins
	- these are pin 1 and pin 6
	- pin 1 is the top one.
- The other pins are place in counter-clock wised way.

- Delivered voltage: 5V

