start: 09h15
end : 
# Today's Plan

- [x] Separate monitor class into interface and API
	- [x] pyudev functions all together in one single function
- [x] Separate connection class into interface and API
	- [x] uC communication tx,rx functions in one class
	- [x] all function that uses a library in a specific class
- [x] Trigger camera thanks to Renesas board
- [ ] Design Review

# Architecture Refactoring

The idea is to have functions that interact with libraries, that are platform oriented, in a specific class. This will allow modularity and cross-compatibility.

The decoupling was successfully done but there is still improvements to make.
- PortMonitor follows the _Factory Pattern_.
	- It tries to create a uC_Connection. If it succeeds, the object should be passed to higher classes and the ownership should be passed.
- uC_Connection may need port as attributes.


# Trigger Camera with Renesas board

I am pretty sure that i was not build before debugging my program. Pretty dumb.

Just so i don't forget:
- Suggestions are available by clicking CTRL+Space
	- It is kinda a lame and very sensible but allows to explore the functions.
	- However i don't think that the functions listed are on the context, i guess the list is general.
- There a need to build manually the program every single time you change.
	- Just clicking on debug is not going to build, so changes are not taken into account.
		- pretty annoying
- The IDE is pretty complete and almost everything is done through the smart configuration. Only programming that requires finding the right .c file to code your logic. 
	- Names of modules and components are kinda lame and unnecessarily complicated
		- Steep learning curve
- CMOS output is the only that provides voltage to output.